Thank you very much, everyone. Again, welcome, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome, everyone.
Good afternoon. And now, again, I'm going to talk about the teachings of the Japji, the Nuremuti.
And now, I'm going to look at this teaching. Please open up this teaching. The hard advice for the
14 ones by this individual, go to that teaching.
And we'll go to the point of this, best on this teaching, and then let me explain the teaching from
other great teachings.
From the Buddha, God of the Mesopotam, other great masters. This, and so, that's it. So, it's all
in combat. I mean, this is a very condensed, very mega, like, and like, teachings, like it.
And so, we talk here, and that we give here, when we talk here, in the fourth line, to take the
full advantage of the life that is so difficult to obtain.
And then resolve the pre-wansal, from the author of samsaric sufferings. We went through these
topics. And how that is? Poor, renounced sachin topics.
We discussed, let me say, about how precious life is. Same time, how difficult to obtain these
teachings, or these lives, we discussed.
Of course, this is the teaching of the great teacher, Buddha Shatamuni. But this is not just his
teaching. His giving is something different, different realms, or different areas happen.
We will look to our own, this world, that human lives are so special. At the same time, it is less
than other populations.
I am talking about the animal realms, than what we can see. Of course, this stress, talking about
the human population is growing. There is over 4 billion.
But think of how much population of animal realms has. According to the teaching, there is animal
realms, are underground, above ground.
There are so many varieties of animals.
And to compare with animal realms and human realms, what the teaching said, animal realm is like
atoms of earth, dust of the earth.
And among that, human realms are just dust on our palm nails, that much, small.
This is, of course, examples. To compare with that, and then according to the teaching, now other
realms we don't see.
Hungry ghost realm, we don't see. Animal realms, or sorry, hell realms, we don't see. But according
to the teaching, it is even more than animal realms.
So therefore, again, in these old reasons, the British life is so, human life is so spacious.
Among the 4 billion peoples, how many people are spiritually oriented, even more raised?
How many really have genuine thoughts of loving-kind and competing, caring and concerning thoughts
for others with soft and kind-hearted persons?
How many people? Everything. Among the 400 people, 400 billion peoples.
To compare with that, spiritually oriented is so small. Among the spiritually oriented people,
how many people are really keeping the body together, what we are discussing, body together, in the
heart and mind?
You all know body together. How many people are really head-thought of the body together, thinking
of all living beings?
So therefore, when we look that way, it's true, it's not just a making of that.
It's going rare, in a rare, in a rare, or less, less, less.
And now, for example, all of us, in this one medalla or one in the platform of this town, we don't
retreat.
Somehow, we are quite oriented with spirituals, and also we are quite oriented with loving-kindness
and competing.
And also, we are really thinking about the body together, quite all kinds.
We are even enjoying that, even though maybe we can't activate the exileism,
we're wicked, but we're really sincerely chanting those prayers, wishing that every day, maybe.
Every day, that. It is quite reasonable.
It's not something that we have to feel kind of all-spatial, in a sense of an arrogance, but help
feel joy and happy, and appreciate it.
But same time, have the courage, commitment, confidence that I'm going to use my spiritual life for
beautiful purpose,
to benefit to myself, to my family members, my friends, and all the beings.
That is really so important. So therefore, I'm here, that we have to protect and win it.
And then we discuss it about samsara has a lot of difficulties. Cause and efforts are inevitable.
Everything is in permanent states. Those are all known as some ocean of samsaras.
Those are, even though it's natural, but in a way, we go challenge.
Always, we challenge with impermanence. We challenge with cause and effort in evidence.
And we challenge with the difficulties and challenges of samsaras, one after another.
Now, what are we doing here? According to his own communion with the teaching, that we like to
change that status.
We like to change our samsara, or this, where we are.
We like to change. And then how to change that, where we go.
That is known as going to the nirvana.
But this samsara, nirvana has a border of samsara, nirvana is nothing any further than anywhere.
I mean, it's not far. So border of samsara, nirvana is within our mental states.
One great master, Jambung Mohan, what you said, if you give up, if you finish out, finish it,
or we completely exhaust of the duality, nirvana is right there.
The moment we are out of the duality, moment we are out of the cleanings,
that moment you are in the nirvanas, right in the nirvana.
So border of the beat of the samsara, nirvana is very, very narrow.
There is actually nothing, no borders. No borders.
The samsara, what the great master Naludyana said in his teaching, the end of samsara is nirvana.
The end of nirvana is samsara.
There is no difference, reality, except duality, like ego cleanings.
When we have that, we are within the border or within the territory of samsara.
When we are processed to remove the duality and the clinging,
we are processed to go into the territory of the nirvanas.
We are walking toward nirvanas.
And of course, for a long time, for many of us, our practice and strength is not so strong.
So therefore, we are going to back and forth, in a way, lingering back and forth.
But once you reach to the first part, sorry, second part, and then first burning,
then you really reach the comfortable zone of the nirvanas.
Until that, we are lingering back and forth.
But every keep the courage and the commitment, joy, and joy for effort.
When we follow the teaching of the Buddha Chaktamuni and Gurbian Masambha,
this is our destination.
And this is our goal.
Here, we are advancing, we are taking advantage.
So therefore, with that understanding, then what we do?
When we do all that, when we know that, then what?
And in the teaching, in Buddha's teaching, you should contact qualified teachers.
Qualified teaching is very important.
I listed yesterday kind of principle or highlight the qualification that explaining in a tantrum,
as well as in Mahayana, a condensed one by the Shanti Devans.
So those are the qualifications.
But again, always in the teaching set, in the degeneration times,
it is difficult to get completely highly qualified teachers.
Difficult to find.
As I just studied, I'm sure you remember, I divided, or not I, in the teaching.
In the teachings, there are three different teachers.
The ordinary teacher, Bodhisattva's teacher, Buddha's teacher.
We don't have the capability to contact Bodhisattva or high enlightened teachers.
And we don't have the capability to also contact Buddha, Buddhas.
But what is our range?
Range is the ordinary teacher.
Even though ordinary teacher should have qualifications.
And those are the qualifications I listed.
As again in the teaching set, it is practical instructions of pointing out.
It's difficult to open all that qualifications.
But when you know those qualifications, those individually have 70s, 80 persons,
or 60% qualification, that can be accepted.
The whole mark of the qualification of the teacher, and as well as the student,
is loving kindness, compassion, joy, appreciation, openness mark, and loyalty.
Mostly, those are the qualifications explained.
Also for the student too, and the teacher.
And if you have that, and then also there will be more contentment.
Those are qualifications.
Particularly again, qualifications of the student, there is again many, many awkward,
two different explanations.
But the simple one, highlight by the great master, Shanti Deo,
is one foremost student of the Nagarjuna.
He said, "The qualification of the student summarized is, first is open mind."
Open, but that means not martialities, this and that kind.
Very open, neutral mind.
Second qualification is very keen interest,
keen interest of the teachings.
And third one is important, quite smart, can observe the teaching, can understand.
So that means smart, keen interestings, and open mind are the principal qualifications of the
students.
With that, that means qualification of the student,
and then qualification of some degree of the teacher, when they meet,
then they can really make progress, some degree progress.
And I told a group of stories of this teacher and the students,
particularly how those great qualification students are contracted with the great masters in HEA,
and that many of you already know this.
You heard many times, you know that, but I'm going to repeat that again.
This is, for example, Al-Asi talk about the great master, Narayama.
Narayama was one of the great masters of the Indian monastery,
known as the Bukram Shala Monasteries.
Anyway, he was one of the top scholars, scholars of that monastery.
In around maybe 10th century or 11th century, around that time.
And, but however, even though he is highly appreciated in the renowned great masters,
but yet he always feels that he really likes to meet the qualification
and observe that knowledge, learn, teaching of the Buddha,
and really observe that in the heart, really, always.
And many times, one of those great Indian masters said,
"Oh, this mind is never even able to stay for one moment, or one person,
one per second, or one minute."
He says, "It's too difficult to stay in the mind,
so therefore, I just like to leave this and relax."
He likes to leave to the hermitage,
and then relax and gain the stabilizations of the mind, peaceful mind.
Those already say that.
So similarly, Narayama had that entrance,
even though he is really one of the great masters or teachers
in one of the famous monasteries, scholars.
So he left, left, that monasteries,
and then he's searching his teachers, teachers,
according to the predictions that he finds the great master,
known as Maha Siddha Yogi Siddha Tilapas.
And so he's looking at Tilapas everywhere.
Very difficult to find that even the many people don't know his names.
And finally, some individually said, he told Maha Siddha or the Siddha Tilapas.
And that man said, "Oh, I don't know the Tilapas, Maha Siddha Tilapas,
but these others are not so far from where this here is,
is known as 'ficial' means 'the love', 'ficial' means 'the love'.
So then anyway he went to this place, he thought,
"Oh, Maha Siddha Yogi, since I've been looking everywhere,
I didn't find anything, so I'm going to go to meet him."
So when he went there, he's eating the fish.
Fish, but each time, one of the strange things,
each time he's eating the fish in the teaching, in his stories,
he's snapping, snapping.
Looks like fish are kind of in the back to life, looks like.
He did kind of interesting something, something going on there.
So he kind of asked, I used Maha Siddha Tilapas,
and he said, he answered, "I'm the Tilapas."
He said, "I'm the Tilapas, Tilapas."
And then he's also not really communicating so much.
But anyway, he feels something so special,
so he contacted with this one and followed with that.
And as you all read, and we all read,
that Tilapas, when he put Naropa, so many tests, one after another,
big 12 tests, the harsh tests, hard checks,
and small 12 hard checks he put, one after another.
Each time, it's so difficult to do that,
but Naropa really gained great confidence.
He's the master that I'm looking, and I'm going to stay with that.
So when all that one after another,
and after 24 different difficult hardship tests went through one after another.
And then finally, finally, Tilapas said to Naropa,
"Naropa, you mustn't go and get water. We will make tea."
Of course, in ancient times, making tea is not just like here,
that if you go in the hotel, you have to make tea by yourself.
Self or boil the water and make the tea hot drink,
or I mean like my hot water, hot drinks to make that.
So Naropa went to get the tea, water from the running springs or rocks,
whatever he went, and then Tilapas, he told,
he will get a pie wood and we make the pie, we have some hot drinks.
So, Tilapas, Naropa went and got water.
And bagged, and he was going to put it there.
And that moment, that moment, Tilapas grabbed Naropa's name,
and he pulled out his slippers and banged to his poor head or the face so strongly.
And that moment, Naropa fell down as unconsciousness.
And after a while, he gained unconsciousness,
and the teacher was right there, Tilapas was right there.
And he kind of blessed that.
And that moment, in the teachings, that when we wake up,
he sees the perfect true nature, exactly as it is.
That's like past Burmese, or the second Burmese,
or maybe at the Burmese, whatever that is.
He has really gone completely old in any true nature,
negative true nature, as it is.
So all this hardship is difficult to invent.
It is the asset practices.
Practices.
And during that time, Naropa never lost his courage,
commitment, and confidence,
and stay in the rhythm, and stay in the cause,
and never got any wrong misconceptions of the Tilapas.
And Tilapas also knew the capabilities,
readiness, courage, and commitment of Tilapas.
That's what he went through,
giving all those, putting all those old tests, hardships, one after another.
So this is also the story of those great masters,
great students, really a communication and contact,
even though it looks like externally, very hard-shelled, difficult,
but reality is the purification.
Purifying the calmness, purifying the obscurations,
purifying the duality conceptions,
discovering any nature in each process, one after another.
And there is this all beautiful stories in the words of my partner teacher.
I'm sure many of you have these books you can read.
And now I'll talk another story of the great Bodhisattvas, Narva.
This is the Buddha's teaching.
And Narva was very, very devoted,
very enthusiastic to receive Pandya Paravata teachings.
This is the teaching of the Buddha.
And he already great Bodhisattvas through himself,
but yet he like to explore more teachings,
more understanding, teachings.
So he's searching and looking the great teacher of the Pandya Paravatas.
Everywhere. He's good and fine.
One time in the sky, sound king said,
"You go from here about 500 miles,
and there is great Bodhisattvas, known as Chhumpa in Tibet.
Northern is also in Tibet, Chhumpa. Bodhisattva, Chhumpa.
You go see him. He is the great master of Pandya Paravata.
Don't get any misconceptions of this great master of Bodhisattva, Chhumpa.
See, activate him, receive the teaching.
Go and teach him to receive to this teaching, to this.
When he heard this sound from the sky, he was so happy, so excited.
Then he started walking, walking, walking, and walking.
And then he felt, "Oh, I didn't ask how I can find. How can I find that?"
He felt a little bit lost, or I didn't ask enough, precisely, questions,
"Where are these great masters, and how I can find all that?"
So he was quite upset.
But again, he is looking and searching.
He was completely thirsty and hungry for to receive Pandya Paravata teachings,
and very lonely, and very enthusiastic.
And finally, again, he appeared, the great beings, or the Buddhas, in light.
And he appeared to him, "And you go from here to the east directions.
There is them, Chhumpa, and receive the teachings, all that."
So he went. On the way, he thought, "Oh, I don't have any offerings to give to this Chhumpa,
and how I can get some kind of offerings to these great masters."
And finally, to make the shorter stories, he was kind of injured, his physical.
He was injured because of tests by Indra, Indra's courage and commitment.
But when he was injured, he was having those tests by Indra's teachings.
And nearby the city, there is on the top, on the roof, on the balcony,
there is a very wealthy, young, beautiful daughter of the very, very rich market.
She, with her friends, they were watching on the street what was happening there.
And there is one young, beautiful man.
And his kind of life went through the physical kind of life,
difficult because he was demanding something and went through that difficulty, the troubles.
And she was, "Why? He is doing this. Why? What is the reason he has to do this? This."
So then afterward, she came closer to him and asked, "What is the reason?"
And he mentioned, "Because I like to see these great masters to our bodhisattva,
but I don't have any offering articles, so I like to get some offerings."
That's what I went through these physical kind of challenges for that.
And she thought, "Wow, this man is so courageous to see these masters and give some gifts."
And he's really kind of going to start facing a challenge with his physical, such as like this.
"Maybe I will ask my father to give some offerings to him."
So then maybe I will go to him to see these great masters too.
And so he went back to prison, her rich father, and asked.
And the father gave the provision, and he got a lot of offering articles also.
Then she told to Bodhisattva, "And now, so I have the offerings, and we'll ask to go together.
I will see. I will see too these great masters."
So she and we had all attendance, and together, Bodhisattva normally went and received the
offerings
and received the Pandya Parama, the teachings.
And the moment we received the Pandya Parama, the teachings from the Chhumpa,
and that in the teachings said, "He gave so many wisdoms, or so many samadhi powers,
for the concentration status, one apranad and this, one apranad."
So this is the really teaching by the great Bodhisattva minions
of this great enthusiasm master in Bodhisattva,
noticing how he contacted them.
Then we talked about a little bit story of the great master, Lungchiba.
Again, of course, Lungchiba is one of the great masters,
and he is also known as emanation of the great disciple of the Merpe Masamu,
the Latyampe Masamu.
So he is already in very high enlightened status, but yet, how he contacted his great masters.
And that is, again, Lungchiba was born in a sentient bit.
So the Tibet and very kind of like everyday families.
When he was with beautiful signs and indications,
but to make sure Lungchiba went around later,
like maybe in the late teenagers or in the early 1920s,
he went to the very few monastic universities in that time in Tibet,
the monastic universities, the monastic universities, known as sampu nirutok.
He went there.
He started there, and the Lungchiba was genius.
He became one of the most smartest learning scholars in that monastery.
And even his name became the one who memorized all the Buddha teachings.
He is genius.
But yet, his interest is like to discover his origin and nature,
and my meaning for these lives.
And being just scholars, great scholars, is just intellectual, he thought.
I like to really explore the meaning of life,
to absorb this teaching into the heart, and gain enlightenment within these long times.
He heard the reputation and good about his teacher Renzi Kumaradam.
We did that at Kumaradam.
Quite often he heard that.
So he really felt that I could go to see him and start with his great masters.
Masters.
At the same time, in the monastery, there is that he had kind of like some difficulties
with many young other monks, kind of like challenging him, competing him.
A whole story says that the Lungchiba was quite poor and smart.
But many of those young monks, kind of like wild monks, are jealous of these Lungchimas.
So therefore, it's also very uncomfortable.
So then he left the monastery.
And well, when he left the monastery, this Renzi Kumaradam,
we did that at Kumaradam, has very beautiful dreams, beautiful dreams.
So Kumaradam told his own personal attendance that,
"I had a very wonderful dream last night.
Today I will meet my lineage holder, lineage holder.
So I had let him come to direct to me, or whoever comes, let him, them come direct to me."
So that's what Kumaradam told in the morning, to his attendance.
And there's no one who really came, particularly something that's going to hold the lineage
teachings of Renzi Kumaradam.
But after noon, a young monk, quite kind of like a young monk, quite poor looking, came.
So that was a Lungchiba.
Lungchiba, as we know, he's already so learned.
He's the great scholar, top scholar.
But yet he had to receive contract to the teacher, receive the instructions,
and activate his realizations.
So he contracted his Kumaradam with a Dara Kumaradam.
A cold teaching, Kumaradam, Lungchiba stayed about six years with Kumaradam.
During that time, Kumaradam generally never stayed one sport for a long time.
Each time, whatever they have, they leave everything behind.
His student, himself, and Moo, with just a simple, what's it called, just Moo, that's it, leave
everything behind.
That is a little bit known as the Pungdha, which means something that you give up everything.
Very popular ancient times.
Give up everything and move others wherever they start their life.
That is actually known as Kontantamat.
Happy, joy, with little, little, not gathering many things.
So leave. And Lungchiba don't have already began with that.
And so the Kumaradam did that, had all his, himself, and all of us are doing that,
and it has become more difficult to him.
Lungchiba don't have primarily big sport too, quite far, I guess, and then quite difficult.
But yet he stayed with Lungchiba.
Lungchiba stayed with Kumaradam, received all the teachings.
And the Kumaradam also has the capabilities.
He is the main principal in the order of the ninte, or the ninte,
the teaching, the jokki teaching, that descended from the Gopi Masambhava, the Valam Matara,
that all, he can hold very well and transmit that he has the capabilities.
And he was very, very kind and nice and efficient to the Lungchimas.
And he stayed 20, I mean, six years.
At the end of the, that completed, what did the teaching say?
Lungchiba told to Kumaradam, I'm so poor, I don't have anything to material offer.
But I put this into the practices, what do you give me?
And actually, the realization, I make that offer.
So my practice will be offering to you.
And in the teaching said, he went to the center of Tibet,
known as the Mountain Gangritoka.
It's a very famous program of sports in Tibet.
When they stayed, in the teaching, the samsit master said,
about nine years, he practiced and meditated.
Omenya sams said, three years.
And whatever he stayed, long time he stayed in that mountain.
Up in the mountain.
And what Lungchiba has taught, one bag, one bag.
As a sleep bag, or like bag.
That is his cloth, that is his meters, or bed, bedding.
That is the really what he gets.
But his courage, commitment, devotion, enthusiasm,
joy for effort, never lingering.
And he stayed, and he became known as Second Garab Dorji,
or Kunt Buddha Samadabad.
Within that, during that time.
He actualized all the teachings, not just intellectually,
but now completely discovered.
The teaching observed, and he become himself
as the great master of Dzogchi.
That Dzogchi.
And he become himself as Dzogchi.
And he discovered the innate primordial vegetables
and reached the enlightenment within that single,
whether it's three years, nine years, whatever, in that time.
That was how he stayed.
His food is so little during that time.
He really saw Samadabad, every three years.
So small, so small among the food.
And some kind of vitamin builds or market builds,
and the teaching said, but it's small.
And he was relieved.
So this is the story of Dzogchi,
how he contracted and how he observed it,
how he maintained courage and commitment,
joyful effort, and devotion through that.
Then he actualized the realization
as the great Dzogchi.
And master Dzogchi.
And then the similar story of Malareba.
Again, the same thing.
Malareba is born as quite a wealthy family,
the golden teaching,
the very Canadian Galatia, the mountain Galatia region.
Quite wealthy.
But however, young time, his father was lost.
And mother and him and his sisters suffered
and kind of put so much trouble by their relatives.
And not just relatives, all neighborhood,
whole village turned against them without any reason.
Reason, reason.
And when you might suffer in the difficulties.
And that suffering and difficult trouble that he went,
that didn't perish in his commitment,
his hope, his vision, his vision.
Dzogchi created Toma.
Toma and kind of lost the identity.
In a way, it's activated his courage and commitment
as like volcano rock, volcanoes in undergrounds.
Then, because of encouragement of mother,
and did all that he achieved,
like black maggies, all those powers.
And very soon, he was also a genius,
even though Malareba didn't go to school at academic levels,
but he was a genius and very highly intelligent person.
He got all those powers and performed with the mother.
Again, he failed, I mean, he's not just failed,
he created many negative ideas.
One after another.
And that, again, feels so kind of like,
he feel bad about that.
And he did it again, lost his identity.
Because of that, he thought,
I'm going to change my directions.
And that great commitment is in heart and mind,
and he met great Doki masters.
And that Doki master told,
you are not my kind of like connected,
I'm not your connected teacher, go to Simaba.
And he went to the Malareba.
And then Malareba put again so many difficult one up and the other.
That old did not perish in his whole vision, goal, identity.
In a way, it is kind of making more his courage and commitment.
More stronger, really stronger, more uplifting,
very kind of like determination, commitment,
he'd like to make difference.
Finally, Marva gave the teaching and all that,
and then Malareba become as one of the great yogis
in the Buddhist historicals,
or a chi man, great historicals.
This is all the different stories.
And then you read life story of the great master
such as Papa Ramochas.
And the great master Maphong Ramochas,
great master of the Jungkook Oondra.
And of course, the Chinsi,
their life story, how they are humble, simple,
don't do the art, yet they're so committed,
courage and commitment.
They never kind of like stopping the practicing dharma,
even though they're high in the realization of beings.
And they're never stopping to the like,
say, "Oh, it's enough and I don't need,
I reject that teaching, I reject that."
They resist all the teaching in the practice,
each other in the honor and glory of mind,
and they're sitting down to the earth
and kind of humbly themselves.
This is the really all these great masters,
all the other disciples of each other's.
How they are?
Raw examples of all the practices.
So therefore, when we have the teacher,
when we have the teaching, when we have the pressure of this life,
and now it's ready to act like some meaningful of these lives,
of the spiritual side, not material side.
Material side we already have, you already have,
but we all have really, really,
but something kind of tangible develop
that we can develop with our heart and mind.
So that will stay a long time.
For that reason, what I said,
good practitioners, when we started practicing,
meditating and developing our mental state, mind state,
that is the beginning of joy and peace.
Beginning of joy and peace.
The beginning becomes more happier later than now,
and more happy before we depart,
our physical more happy than even before.
So it's like, for example,
if we divide our life now and between,
and then next time we leave this world,
understand that by practicing, our life will be happy now,
but it will be more happy after three years.
It will be more, more happy than after seven years, then more.
And it will be more happy in the comfortable,
even more happy in the pardo in this lifetime.
And even more happy, more comfortable than in the pardo.
Next lifetime is more happy than the pardo.
Those are the teachings, from the happy, going from happy to happy,
or going from peaceful, to peaceful, to peaceful,
to the great peaceful states.
That is the relief of the practicing, the dharma,
and the practicing, developing the strength with our mental state.
And that is my talk again today, and it's been a little longer,
but real, so we do it again, short meditation,
and then we do the eating practices.